BECOME RICH AND FAMOUS
THROUGH THE INTERNET
In the past, to become famous you needed a talent: singing. playing an instrument, dancing or writing books. Nowadays, it is much easier to become famous. This is because of the internet. All you need is a camera or webcam, computer, internet connection and a bit of creativity.
First of all, you need to decide what you are going to write or speak about: hair and makeup, comedy, sport, news and current affairs, raising money for a charity or something specialist like keeping tropical fish. Then choose a site to post on. Some sites are international and some may be particular to one country, such as Weibo in China. YouTube is a good site to choose if you make your own videos. It is easy to upload your short films, and many people use it.
If you want to become famous on YouTube, you should make lots of videos and release one every day. YouTubers who become popular are often those who present tips, advice, 'how to' guides and opinions on entertainment or stories in the news. If you allow advertisements in your videos, you will make money when people view the adverts. Facebook is a good platform for those who want to make money, but not for those who want to be famous. To earn money through Facebook, you need a very original and/or funny page, with interesting photos which can get you a few hundred thousand 'likes'. If you achieve fame on Facebook, it probably won't last.
Twitter is a social media site where people can communicate through short messages. It works well for those who want to be well-known but are not so interested in making money. If you want to become known on Twitter, you will need to post lots of entertaining content. Instagram is a site where people mainly put up photos and videos. It is a site which can make you well-known, particularly if you want to become a famous photographer.
Creating your own blog is possibly the best way to become internet famous and make money, through advertising, especially once you have become known on one of the sites above. You need to be aware of the topics and issues that are 'trending' (that are popular right now) and post about those ideas. Learn to create 'vines' (a series of short extracts from videos put together in a creative way) and become an expert on photo editing. With these few easily learnt skills and some imagination, you can achieve the fame you've always dreamed of online at least.