[MATCHING SENTENCE ENDINGS]
⚫In this question type you are given the first part of some sentences. You have to choose the correct ending from a list. There are more sentence endings than you need.
•	Read the sentence beginning carefully.
•	Find the key words and think of some similar words for them.
•	Find the part of the text where the answer is.
•	Read the sentences carefully, looking out for the key words or similar words.
•	Remember the information may be presented in a different order from the question.
•	Try to complete the sentence in your own words.
•	Check the list and find an ending that is similar to yours.
•	Check that the completed sentence is grammatical and that the meaning matches the text.
•	If the answer is a noun, check that you have used the correct form: singular or plural.

07
Which paragraph do you need to read to find the ending to this sentence?
Moko 'spoke to the beached whales....
Write your own ending.

08
Choose one of these endings for the sentence above.
A because her first attempts had failed.
B to help them return to the deep water.
C because she led them to safety.

TIP 08
Don't be tricked by endings that have words and phrases from the text in them. It doesn't mean the ending is correct.

09
Read the explanations below and check your answer to exercise 8.
A The words 'attempts' and 'failed' are in the text, but they were not Moko's attempts; they were the people's attempts.
B In the text the words 'led them to a channel which took them back to the ocean' are similar to 'help them return to the deep water'. This is the right ending.
C Moko led them to safety but that is not the reason she spoke to the whales.

10 Complete each sentence with the correct ending a-h.
1 Dolphins may protect humans
2 Dolphins swam towards Hardy Jones
3 The swimmer tried to leave the protective ring of dolphins
4 A dolphin nudged Joey Trevino
5 Dolphins and whales help us
a so we should protect them.
b to encourage him not to lose hope.
c because there were so many dolphins.
d because they recognise that humans are similar to them.
e because they sometimes actively decide to help.
f because he had not seen the shark.
g because a shark was about to attack him.
h because he was a campaigner for dolphin protection.