[EVALUATING A PART 2 ESSAY]

02
Read a student's essay on the following topic. (Ignore the highlighting for now.) What are the good things about it?
People nowadays spend their free time less actively than in the past. Do you agree or disagree?

SAMPLE ANSWER
Some people are saying that people are less active than they were in the past. There are points for and against this idea, but overall I agree with the statement, in this essay I explained why
In my opinion, the main reason why people less active is computers. Several years ago we go to speak to our colleagues. We walked to their desk or office. Now we send an email without getting up from our seat. Even our free time is less active because we playing computer games and go on social media, Before, people were walking to a café to meet their friends or they went to their house. Nowadays, though, we chat online at home. In the twentieth century, children do many activities. In today's world, parents are scared for their children's safety, so they prefer to keep them at home. For many, it is easier to stay at home than to go out.
On the other hand, some physical activities are become more popular. There are more gyms than there used to be and it is fashionable to go running or to the gym. in my view, though, only some people do these things. Most people join a gym but they are not going regularly. However, they never stop playing computer games and watching TV! Also, these days everyone took their driving test as soon as possible and starts driving, in the past, young people walked and went by bus
To sum up, I am agree that people are less active in their free time compared with the past. Now people are lazier and less fit than they were before. (273 words)

03
Answer these questions about the essay.
1 Does it have the right number of paragraphs?
2 is every paragraph clear?
3 Are linking expressions used?
4 Is the writer's opinion given clearly?
5. Has the writer looked at both sides (for and against)?
6. Are tenses used correctly?
7 Are there any grammatical mistakes?

04
The teacher has highlighted the student's errors. Can you correct them?

GRAMMAR FOCUS: COMPARING PAST AND PRESENT

05
In the essay, the student is comparing the situation now with the situation in the past. Complete the expressions she uses to refer to the present or the past.

TIP 05
Try to use different phrases to compare past and present or present and future. Make a list of them, as this kind of question is quite frequent.