UNUSUAL SPORTS
A
Do you ever get bored with the same old sports? If you're tired of tennis, fed up with football or bored of basketball, don't worry. There are plenty of new and unusual sports out there for you to try. Many of these are a mix of existing sports, sometimes with a local element added. Bossaball, for example, is a mix of football and volleyball, played on an inflatable pitch with a trampoline in the middle. To make it more exciting, it also has elements of Brazilian martial arts!
B
If you are very good at horse riding, you could try the national sport of Afghanistan, buzkashi. Many versions have been played in the Central Asian region for hundreds of years. The game involves players on horseback trying to get hold of a dead goat. The Afghan Buzkashi Federation wants the game to spread throughout the world and has finally written down the rules because they hope to get Olympic status for the sport.
C
A sport that is more likely to become famous is kabaddi. It is popular in India and other parts of South Asia. It is similar in some ways to the game called 'tag' or 'it' which schoolchildren play. One person is 'it' and has to catch the others. In kabaddi, a 'raider' from one team tries to tag a player from the other team and then return to their own half of the field without getting caught. In some versions of the game, the raider must chant the word 'kabaddi' as he returns to his place. Kabaddi is good fun, good exercise and doesn't need any equipment. It is played at the Asian Games.
D
There is an unusual sport which describes itself as a 'classic mix of brains and brawn. The game, called 'chess boxing', involves a round of chess and then a round of boxing, then another of chess, and so on. There is one minute between rounds. The first chess boxing world championship took place in 2003 in Amsterdam and was won by a Dutchman, lepe Rubingh. Since then, it has become more popular, particularly in Germany, the UK, India and Russia. It is a difficult sport, as players need to be very good at two very different activities and be able to switch quickly between the two.
E
Finally, an unusual sport that will be familiar to most of us is roshambo, which began in China about 2000 years ago and spread gradually to the rest of the world. Played by young and old, in the UK it is known as 'rock-paper-scissors'. It is surprising that it is called a sport and taken so seriously; there's a World Rock Paper Scissors Society and a league which holds championships every year. So, whatever kinds of sport you like, there is something new and interesting for you to try.