A
We have become so used to
shopping in big supermarkets and chain stores, identical in every town, that we have forgotten about one important way to shop - markets. Markets are found in every country in the world, but wherever you go they are different and reveal the local culture - and agriculture. From farmers' markets selling fresh produce to craft and antique markets, they are the best place to find something unique at a great price.
B
Food is at its cheapest and freshest in markets. Farmers often sell direct to the consumer, without all the packaging, shipping and advertising that increases costs in shops and supermarkets. You can often find unusual products and those that are not mass-produced, Food markets vary hugely according to where they are in the world. For example the Kauppatori market in Helsinki, Finland sells moose, reindeer and bear salami. Wherever you are, food will be locally produced and reasonably priced.
C
Markets are also good places to buy clothes. Some sell cheap new and second-hand clothes, while others. specialise in vintage or ethically made clothes and original items. The markets of London are some of the best in the world for those who want to create a unique look for themselves. Many new designers start with a market stall, so if you are looking for a totally original item of clothing, you could get something really special at a bargain price at Brick Lane, Spitalfields or Portobello Road markets.
D
Another type of market is a flea market. This is a much more informal type of market, where second-hand products can be sold by anyone. If you have unwanted items at home, you could take them to a flea market and sell them yourself. There are also antiques and possibly local crafts at this kind of market. In some parts of the world there may not even be stalls; rather, vendors lay out their goods on a sheet on the ground. In other parts of the world, flea markets have developed into car boot sales, where people sell their unwanted items from their cars.
E
In some places, markets are directed at visitors and tend to sell handicrafts typical of the region. For many tourists, a visit to a nearby market to buy souvenirs is an important part of their holiday. Guadalajara in Mexico has a huge range of traditional textiles, glassware, ceramics and art works and Seoul in Korea has some wonderful original designs of all kinds of products at affordable prices. Countries in the Middle East usually have beautiful hand-made rugs and carpets, and Indian markets sell colourful handloom fabrics and beautiful silk scarves.
F
In Europe, Christmas is the time when seasonal markets are held to sell decorations and gifts for the festive season. One of the most famous of these is held in Wenceslas Square in Prague in the Czech Republic. The market is made up of colourfully decorated wooden huts selling traditional handicrafts, embroidered lace, wooden toys, scented candles, Christmas tree ornaments, and puppets and dolls beautifully dressed in traditional costumes. This looks very pretty, especially in the snow.
G
So, wherever you are in the world and whatever you are looking for, there is a market for you. You can get all kinds of unusual things at great prices.