[EXAM SKILLS]
TIP 13
Use the questions to help you to follow the recording. Multiple-choice questions are in the same order as the information in the recording. You will hear the answer to question 2 before you hear the information which gives you the answer to question 3.

13
Listen to the conversation and choose the correct letter, A, B or C.
1 Who are the two speakers?
A good friends
B work colleagues
C family members
2 What celebration are they talking about?
A a birthday party
B a graduation
C a wedding
3 What colour hat do baby girls wear at the event in Korea?
A black and silver
B black
C red and silver
4 The purse represents
A good health.
B good fortune.
C wealth.
5 What food do guests have at the event?
A oranges
B vegetables
C rice cakes
6 What does the baby receive from the guests?
A a candle
B some money
C some tea

Track 08
Mark: Hi there, Nam! You aren't still working on your history assignment, are you?
Nam: Hi, Victor! No, I'm taking a break. I'm looking at some photos, actually a family celebration. Do you want to see them?
Mark: So, who's the cute baby in this picture here?
Nam: She's my niece - my brother's daughter. Her name's Tae-Hee. She's one year old in this picture. It's a very important birthday in Korea - we call it 'Dol' or Doljanchi. It's a very special celebration - in fact, I think it's probably more important than a wedding or a graduation! And we invite all our family and friends and sometimes our neighbours. Here's a picture of the restaurant where we celebrated Tae-Hee's big day.
Mark: What a lovely place - and a beautiful garden, too.
Nam: Yes, it's a perfect location for taking photographs. Can you see me just there next to the trees?
Mark: Ah yes, I like your hat! And I like the red and silver hat Tae-Hee's wearing too. It's really pretty.
Nam: Yes, it's a traditional hat for a girl. Baby boys wear a different one - all black. It looks very serious!
Mark: That's a bit boring. Black and silver would be more interesting. What's Tae-Hee wearing round her skirt?
Nam: That's a little purse. Boy babies wear this too. It's made of silk and it means good luck in our culture. And she's wearing a belt too. Look - do you see? The belt means she will have a long life!
Mark: And what's this on the table there? It's very colourful.
Nam: It's rice cakes.
Mark: I've never seen anything like that before. It looks like a rainbow!
Nam: We always eat rice cakes at a baby's party. There are usually 12 different types of them on the table. Look - this rice cake is completely orange in colour and this one here is bright green!
Mark: It looks like a vegetable!
Nam: Now, look - this is me with my brother's wife, Mi-Cha. We get on really well together.
Mark: What are you holding?
Nam: Oh, it's a little bag. All the guests get a gift bag at the end of the party. And inside there's a present from the baby's parents. It's really fun to open it because you don't know what you'll get. So it could be a candle, or some chocolates. Guess what I got? You can see it in this next photo.
Mark: It looks like a box of tea. But shouldn't it be the other way round - the baby gets the presents?
Nam: Well, the baby receives money from the guests, so in a way you're right! And actually, I've got my present right here. So, why don't we open the box right now and have a cup of tea? Then we can try to finish our assignments.
Mark:
Sounds good to me!