MAP OF A PARK
08
Look at the map with a partner and discuss the different things you can see on the map.

⚫Another type of map you might find in a map-labelling task is a map of a park. The illustration below is a map of an activity camp.

09
Listen to the manager giving a tour of the activity camp to a group of teenagers. Label the map with which activity they can do in each place. Use no more than TWO WORDS for each activity.
Track 52
First of all, welcome to our activity summer camp. I hope you enjoy all the activities we have on offer. We start our tour at the outdoor theatre here, where we hold many of our evening activities. From here you can see our various watersport activities. Directly in front of the campsite, on the edge of the lake, we have the kayaking centre. And then in front of the beach, we have an area reserved for diving. Swimming isn't permitted here.
If you like racket sports, just behind the beach you can practise badminton in the large building. That's quite popular in the evenings. We also have some outdoor tennis courts. We used to have basketball in the building too, but now you can play it on the court behind the building. And if these activities make you hungry, the path from there takes you straight to the café and dining hall.
However, we'll continue our walk along the lake shore and I'd like to draw your attention to two other areas. One is this part of the lake, which is perfect for swimming, but, for safety reasons, only when an instructor is present. Unfortunately we can't offer sailing as an option here this year. And I also want to point out, just across the lake, a track for cycling. Some people in the past have also gone running on the track, but there were a few accidents because there isn't enough space for runners and cyclists, so now running isn't allowed.
So now let's take this path here, towards the tennis courts. On our left, you can see there's a football field. Gary's our coach and he'll be organising tournaments during the week. He'll arrive tomorrow, because he's taking part in a rugby game today.
And now if we walk up to the right of the tennis courts, we can see the archery field, surrounded by trees. And in the building just to the right of this, you can hire equipment for the archery and buy snacks and drinks. It also has some table tennis tables, so you can go there and have a game if the weather turns bad.