[PART 3 QUESTIONS]
⚫In Part 3 of the Speaking test the examiner will ask you some questions about the topic in Part 2. They will be questions which require you to think. For example you might be asked for your opinion, or for ideas, solutions to problems or for an explanation about why something happens.

05
Read the Part 3 questions 1-4 on the topic of animals and match them with the beginning of some students' responses a-d.
1 What can governments do to prevent illegal hunting? [~b~]
2 Should the government provide more money for zoos? [~a~]
3 How might we be able to protect wildlife in the future? [~d~]
4 Is there any difference in how children learn about wildlife now than in the past? [~c~]

a They definitely should. It seems to me that ...
b There are two things X can do. The first is...
c. There's a big difference, I think. In the past, we...
d Well, in the future, it might be a good idea to...

Track 70 Listen and check.
1
Examiner: What can governments do to prevent illegal hunting?
Student 1: There are two things the government can do to prevent illegal hunting. The first is to be more serious about punishing hunters, for example...
2
Examiner: Should the government provide more money for zoos?
Student 2: They definitely should. It seems to me that zoos need money now more than ever. Many of them have very old facilities for the animals...
3
Examiner: How might we be able to protect wildlife in the future?
Student 3: Well, in the future, it might be a good idea to use technology to track where wild animals are ...
4
Examiner: Is there any difference in how children learn about wildlife now than in the past?
Student 4: There's a big difference, I think. In the past, we used to go on more field trips to places to see wild animals, but now we mostly just see them on the internet.

06
Answer the questions 1-4 in exercise 5 with a partner, using the sentence beginnings to start your answer.

TIP 05
Listen for key words. You must always answer the question the examiner asks you. You will lose marks if you talk about the topic without answering the question. So you must listen carefully to the question and then begin your answer in an appropriate way.

TIP 06
I feel..., I believe Don't always use I think.... It's good to learn some other phrases such as it seems to me that....