LISTENING
IN THIS UNIT YOU WILL LEARN HOW TO
complete a flow-chart
-predict what information is missing in a flow-chart
deal with technical or scientific flow-charts.
LEAD-IN
01
Do you know who this famous person is and what he does? Do you know how he became famous?

02
You will hear a journalist talk about how this artist became famous. Complete the flow-chart below. Write NO MORE THAN TWO WORDS for each answer.

Track 59
Justin Bieber's rise to fame is an interesting story. He was interested in music from a very early age and he taught himself how to play a whole selection of musical instruments, which I think is rare in youngsters these days. Like a lot of teenagers who want to be pop stars, he learnt the guitar. But, whereas very few of those teenagers put in the effort needed to be successful, Bieber, on the other hand, not only learnt how to play the piano as well, but also mastered the drums and even the trumpet! One day he hopes to learn the violin.
He was interested in music from a very early age and he taught himself how to play a whole selection of musical instruments, which I think is rare in youngsters these days. Like a lot of teenagers who want to be pop stars, he learnt the guitar. But, whereas very few of those teenagers put in the effort needed to be successful, Bieber, on the other hand, not only learnt how to play the piano as well, but also mastered the drums and even the trumpet! One day he hopes to learn the violin. He was clearly gifted, and his mother used to arrange for him to take part in local competitions. He came second in one, and his mother posted his performance on YouTube. She kept posting other clips of him singing, and soon these attracted a number of fans who started following him, though at this point he still hadn't found fame.
His big break came when a music executive came across these videos by accident when he was looking for a performance by a different artist. He immediately recognised Bieber's talent and gave the teenager a contract with his recording company. His first record was a worldwide hit. He shot to fame in just two years and is now a global superstar, one of the most well-known performers the world has ever seen.