10
Read the essay and answer the questions about it that follow.

1 What is the writer's opinion?
2. What three pieces of specific support does the writer give?
3 Does the writer consider the opposite opinion?
4 These are all possible plans for this essay. Which one has the writer used?

Plan 1
Opinion Opposing argument why I disagree Opposing argument + why I disagree Restate opinion
Plan 2
Opinion
My main arguments Opposing arguments Restate opinion
Plan 3
General introduction (no opinion) Arguments for Arguments against My opinion (given for the first time)

MODEL ANSWER
All children have the right to a normal childhood. On the other hand, everyone is interested in child stars and the children of celebrities. Overall, I agree that it is more important to protect children, so we should not allow people to take photographs of people under 18.
It is true that people are interested in seeing photos of famous children. They want to see if they look like their celebrity parents. The Beckham children, for example, are often in the newspapers. People think the Beckham boys should play football like their father. The little girl has to be perfectly dressed like her mother. In my opinion, this is not fair on the children. Another problem is that people believe they have the right to see pictures of famous children, particularly important ones like those of the British royal family. Prince William is working hard to make sure his children, Prince George and Princess Charlotte, can grow up with their privacy protected.
People say that 'fame has a price'. They think that if photographers take pictures of well-known people, that is part of the price. I disagree with children "paying for fame'. They didn't choose to be famous. They have the right to be badly dressed or have a bad day like everyone else. I once saw a website called 'Celebrities with ugly kids'. How will those children feel when they see that website one day?
In conclusion, I understand that photos of famous children sell newspapers. However, I think such photos should be banned to protect the children.